As the Japanese and German Empires solidified their control over the old world, one region that was noteworthy was the Middle East. Despite the influencing radiating from each side, the Middle East has remained neutral, but the times are changing. The Empires are putting more pressure on the nations of the Middle East to choose a side in the Cold War.

KINGDOM OF IRAQ - The Kingdom of Iraq had once been a protectorate of the British Empire but would gain independence following the collapse. King Faisal II took this time to solidify power and maintained a neutral foreign policy, not favouring Germany or Japan. However, the Japanese secretly funded a military coup in the early 60s which kept the monarchy but centralised the real power for the military. However during the game, the King may not have as much power as before but still had significant influence, acting as the head of state. The King does not want an alliance with Japan which the military does. Eventually, the military will abolish the monarchy, establish the Iraqi Republic and sign an alliance with Japan. This angers the Germans who cut off ties with the new Republic and back the Arab National Socialist Party, specifically the Iraqi Regional Branch under leadership of Saddam Hussein. Not long later, the ANSP revolts against the Republic, starting a Civil War. They form an uneasy alliance with the Royal Loyalists to defeat the Republican military government.
ANTI-GOVERNMENT COALITION VICTORY - If the Royalist-ANSP Coalition is able to defeat the Republic, then a second phase of the Iraqi Civil War begins with the Coalition breaking with no common enemy remaining. It will almost always end in a victory for the ANSP who establishes the Arab Republic of Iraq, but on the off chance they do not, the Kingdom of Iraq is restored and will eventually be invaded by one of its neighbours alongside Germany or Japan. However, the main focus will be on the ANSP victory. The Arab Republic of Iraq is a National Socialist/Fascist/Neo-Ba'athist dictatorship under President Saddam Hussein. They form an alliance with the Groﬂdeutsches Pal‰stinaprotektorat and begin invading some of their neighbours. Iraq occupies Kuwait and sets up a puppet in Syria, with the South region around Damascus being annexed by German Palestine alongside Jordan. With the threat of invasion from Iraq and Germany, Iran will establish an alliance with Japan for defense. 
IRAQI REPUBLIC VICTORY - A victory for the Iraqi Republic leads to them establishing an alliance with Japan and occupying Kuwait. A joint invasion from Japanese India and Iraq into Iran, with a puppet state established. The ANSP is outlawed and flees to Syria and overthrows the government with German aid. The Syrian Republic under the Arab National Socialist Party is a German puppet, with its south around Damascus directly annexed by German Palestine and the rest being occupied.